

											






													To the degree that one masters his tools,						 To the degree that he is mastered by his tools,
													he can invest the world with meaning.						the shape of the tool determines his owl self-image.



																							we demand:

																			NEW INSTRUMENTS FOR THE RECONQUEST 
																									OF PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE









															Convivial tools are those which give each person who uses them
															the greatest opportunity to enrich the environment with the fruits of his or her vision.

															They are transducers of energy,
															or amplifiers of energy.

															Manipulative tools deny this possibility to those who use them
															and they allow their designers to determine the meaning and expectations of others.




									The Design of
									Convivial Tools

											Tools foster conviviality to the extent to which
										they can be easily used by anybody,
										as often or as seldom as desired,
										for the accomplishment of a purpose chosen by the user.

											The use of such tools by one person
										does not restrain another from using them equally.
										They do not require previous certification of the user.
										Their existence does not impose any obligation to use them.

											They allow the user to express his meaning in action.




																					The world does not contain information.
																					It is as it is.
																					
																					Information about it
																					is created in the organism
																					through its interaction with the world.

																					To speak about storage of information
																					outside the human body
																					is to fall into a semantic 
																											trap.

																					Books
																					or computers
																					are part of the world.
																					They can yield information
																					when they are looked upon.

																					We move the problem
																					of learning
																					and of cognition
																					nicely
																					into the blind spot of our intellectual vision
																					if we confuse vehicles for potential information
																					with information itself.

																					We do the same
																					when we confuse data for potential decision
																					with decision itself.

